>> Scott Moss: Sweet, some of
the other stuff I wanna show is hooks.
So someone asked a question about
how do we get notifications or
how do we know when something happens on
a collection, and then respond to it.
Well Mongoose's answer to that is hooks.
So we can hook into, or actually they call
them middleware, I call them hooks, but
the official name is called middleware.
So what you can do is you
can add middleware into
different events that
happen on the collection.
And pretty much an event is any
operation that could happen.
You do a find, a find one and
delete, a save, a remove, all those
different types of operations you can do
on a model, you can either tie into them
before they happen or after they happen,
and it can be synchronous or asynchronous.
And you could even control
the order when they happen.
And that's what the middleware
allows you to do.
So it's actually,
middleware by itself is really advanced,
but I was just gonna show you some
of the stuff that you can do.
So for instance, if I wanted to run
middleware before I created a school,
before it was actually saved in
the database, I wanna run some middleware,
what I can do is I can use the same
schema object that we created from
mongoose.schema, and
what I can do is I can say school.pre.
So if I do pre, and
then I pass in the name of the event that
I want to subscribe to,
I'm going to say pre save,
I can run some functionality in here.
So in this case I'm just going
to say console.log(before save),
save there we go.
So I'm just going to do that.
And none of our school stuff is unique or
required, so
I can just run the same code,
and we should still see it.
So I'm gonna get rid of these other logs.
>> Scott Moss: Still gonna save it, so
if I run this,
>> Scott Moss: You can see I get a log
before a save.
So this happened before
the actual document was saved.
This did not happen before the validation.
If we had validations on the document and
I was trying to fix them inside of
the save, it would still fail
because validations run before save.
There's another hook for
that and that's prevalidate.
So if you want to run things before
Mongoose validates then you can say
before you validate anything,
let me do my validation first, and
then you can do your thing.
So this is a great place to do
everything that's custom validations and
stuff like that.
And again, pretty much for almost any
operation that you can do on a model,
there is a hook for it,
or a middleware for it.
So if you want to do before find one,
you can say before find one.
And whenever the find one query runs,
it's gonna run this function first.
If you wanna do one before find one and
remove, you can add that.
Almost any operation you can do that.
There's some small gotchas
between querying and
updating and how that works,
and what you would get,
but it's very minute, and you just have to
look at the documentation of what those
small ones are because it really
depends on how your stuff is set up.
But basically you either might get
a reference to a document as this,
or you might get a reference to
the update that's coming in.
It really depends on how you
structure your application.
And those are the only things, but just to
be safe, don't use the arrow functions,
just use the regular functions to make
sure that the binding is correct.
So that's for pre, for
post it's mostly the same thing.
So I can do post save.
>> Scott Moss: And
I can say after save check this out.
So I'm going to do this and
then, boom, after save it ran.
>> Scott Moss: So these were just
synchronous middleware functions,
you can also do asynchronous.
So if you wanted to do asynchronous then,
and if you're just doing saves and
read, then you're gonna get two arguments.
So you'll probably get the documents, the
first argument, and I believe you'll get
this other one called next or, actually,I
think next is the only one you'll get.
So you'll get next as
one argument like this,
and then now you can do
asynchronous stuff in here.
So if I wanted to say let's
just do a setTimeout here.
So we'll say setTimeout for 300 and
then we'll do a console.log.
>> Scott Moss: And
then we'll say next as in we're done.
So next is a function,
that you can say, all right,
I'm finally done, you can go onto
the next middleware in the stack.
Cuz you can stack up these middleware and
whenever you create them,
that's the order they're going to be
executed, so saying next is saying go to
the next middleware, I'm done now,
and that's what that function is for.
So if you ever use middleware in Express
or any other server framework, it's very
much the same way, just saying go to
the next middleware that's registered.
Cuz there's nothing stopping me for
making another school.post('save').
I can do that again, there's no
one stopping me from doing it, but
this one will run first then this one.
And this is saying, all right,
I'm done, go to the next one, but
not before I do 300 milliseconds.
So, we'll do that, run this.
Okay, yeah, I had it right the first time.
So doc will be the first argument and
then next will be the next argument,
doc is gonna be the instance
of the document itself.
So if I said doc, like that.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So now we have a post save,
it waited 300 milliseconds, and
then I logged off the docket,
which was the first argument.
>> Scott Moss: And actually,
I'll just make that a little longer, so
we can actually see it,
cuz that happened kinda fast.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So I'm using asynchronous stuff in here,
which means you can do other database
stuff inside of this middleware,
which is really helpful, and that's
actually what you're gonna be doing next.
So we had a question earlier was like,
well,
if we're doing these associations and
I delete something but
now the model that's referred to some of
this is deleted, how do I clean that up?
You would do it in this middleware.
So if you delete something, you need to go
query the database for all the things that
are referencing it and delete the
reference too, or whatever you do there.
So this is where you would do that.
Or this is where I would do it,
I'm sure you can do it somewhere else, but
this is what this is built for.
>> Scott Moss: Any
questions on middleware?
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Did we have to do
anything to denote that it was gonna be
asynchronous or did just-
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, or
I was going to answer that question,
yes, kind of crazy how that works.
So note a lot of libraries
what they'll do is,
basically the short answer is they
look if you ask for the argument.
If you ask for two arguments,
they know it's asynch.
That's what they do.
So if you say, yeah, I asked for
two arguments, so therefore it's asynch.
If I only asked for
one argument, it won't be asynch.
So they look at the like
arity of the arguments.
I don't really like
that style programming.
I don't know why people do
that in JavaScript, but
it's something people used to do back
in the day and it's carrying over.
I really don't like that, I like to be
just explicit, like I like to pass in
a flag or maybe just return a promise,
like everybody else does,
but yeah, if you put two arguments here,
then that's how they know.
Yeah, otherwise it's like what is that?
It's magic.
Yeah, any other questions?
>> Scott Moss: Pretty powerful stuff.
Another good example for middleware is if
you're doing real time with WebSockets or
anything like that, this is a great place
to update all your clients, all right.
So if one client updates a chat,
right, and you need to post that
chat message to everybody else's chat,
you would do that in something like this,
like post save, ping everybody
else's chat room with this thing.
So, it's a great place for
stuff like that, very, very helpful.